scripts/python/golioth/README.md, before:

# Golioth client Python library

This is a basic Golioth client library.

## Install

Just install this package from source with following command:

``` sh
pip install .
```

If you plan on editing / development of this package, consider using `-e` (`--editable`) parameter
when installing it.

## CLI

This package installs with CLI script called `golioth`. There are various commands implemented,
which can be listed by using `--help` argument such as:

``` sh
$ golioth --help
Usage: golioth [OPTIONS] COMMAND [ARGS]...

Options:
  -c, --config-path PATH  Path to goliothctl configuration
  --api-key TEXT          Api key
  --help                  Show this message and exit.

Commands:
  call         Call RPC method on device.
  certificate  Certificates related commands.
  device       Device related commands.
  logs         Logging service related commands.
  settings     Settings service related commands.
```

or for each subcommand like `golioth logs --help`.

### Configuration

`golioth` CLI tool is just complementary tool to `goliothctl` (for now). Hence
it uses it's configuration format. `goliothctl` default configuration file is at
`~/.golioth/.goliothctl.yaml`.

#### Default hosted (`api.golioth.io`) backend

In order to use this package with `api.golioth.io` an API key needs to be generated. This can be
achieved with `goliothctl apikeys create`:

``` sh
$ goliothctl apikeys create
id:"SOME_ID"  key:"MY_KEY" type:API_KEY
```

or an existing key can be listed at any point with:

``` sh
$ goliothctl apikeys list
id:"SOME_ID"  key:"MY_KEY"  policy_id:"SOME_POLICY_ID"  roles:"apikey" type:API_KEY
```

Then to use such API key use `--api-key MY_KEY`. As an example, invoke following command to list
devices with Python CLI tool:

``` sh
$ golioth --api-key MY_KEY device list
[
    {
        'id': 'device-id',
        'hardwareIds': ['device-hardware-id'],
        'name': 'device-name',
        'createdAt': '2022-11-15T14:40:48.243Z',
        'updatedAt': '2022-11-15T14:40:48.243Z',
        'tagIds': [],
        'data': None,
        'lastReport': None,
        'status': '-',
        'metadata': {'status': '-', 'lastReport': None, 'lastSeenOnline': None, 'lastSeenOffline': None, 'lastSettingsStatus': None},
        'enabled': True
    }
]
```

#### Self-hosted backend

With self-hosted backend there is no API key authentication required by default. However a separate
configuration file might be useful with following contents:

``` yaml
apiurl: http://localhost:9090
projectid: one
```

assuming that self-hosted Golioth server runs on `localhost` using port `9090`.
`project: one` defines default project to be used. Such configuration is exactly
what is generated by running:

``` sh
goliothctl --apiUrl "http://localhost:9090" config set projectId one
```

when using `goliothctl`. Above configuration file can be used both with
`goliothctl -c myconfig.yaml` or with this package CLI `golioth -c
myconfig.yaml`.

### Example - list last 10 log entries

``` sh
$ golioth logs tail -n 10
[2022-10-27 16:46:06.400946+00:00] <ERR> golioth_logging Err: 1928
[2022-10-27 16:46:11.411925+00:00] <ERR> golioth_logging Err: 1929
[2022-10-27 16:46:16.422354+00:00] <INF> golioth_logging Counter hexdump
[2022-10-27 16:46:21.431396+00:00] <DBG> golioth_logging Log 2: 1931
[2022-10-27 16:46:26.441428+00:00] <DBG> golioth_logging Log 2: 1932
[2022-10-27 16:46:31.450970+00:00] <DBG> golioth_logging Debug info! 1933
[2022-10-27 16:46:36.462141+00:00] <INF> golioth_logging Counter hexdump
[2022-10-27 16:46:41.470900+00:00] <WRN> golioth_logging Warn: 1935
[2022-10-27 16:46:46.481341+00:00] <DBG> golioth_logging Log 2: 1936
[2022-10-27 16:46:51.491666+00:00] <WRN> golioth_logging Warn: 1937
```

### Example - list last 15 log entries with "Zephyr shell" format

``` sh
$ golioth logs tail -n 15 --format zephyr
[02:41:54.420,000] <dbg> golioth_logging: func_1: Log 1: 1939
[02:41:59.430,000] <inf> golioth_logging: Counter hexdump
                                          94 07 00 00
[02:42:04.440,000] <wrn> golioth_logging: Warn: 1941
[02:42:09.450,000] <inf> golioth_logging: Counter hexdump
                                          96 07 00 00
[02:42:14.460,000] <dbg> golioth_logging: main: Debug info! 1943
[02:42:19.470,000] <wrn> golioth_logging: Warn: 1944
[02:42:24.480,000] <err> golioth_logging: Err: 1945
[02:42:29.490,000] <err> golioth_logging: Err: 1946
[02:42:34.500,000] <err> golioth_logging: Err: 1947
[02:42:39.510,000] <dbg> golioth_logging: func_1: Log 1: 1948
[02:42:44.520,000] <dbg> golioth_logging: func_1: Log 1: 1949
[02:42:49.530,000] <dbg> golioth_logging: func_2: Log 2: 1950
[02:42:54.540,000] <err> golioth_logging: Err: 1951
[02:42:59.550,000] <wrn> golioth_logging: Warn: 1952
[02:43:04.560,000] <inf> golioth_logging: Counter hexdump
                                          a1 07 00 00
```

### Example - monitor new log entries in realtime

``` sh
$ golioth logs tail -n 0 -f
[2022-10-27 16:48:51.731504+00:00] <DBG> golioth_logging Log 2: 1961
[2022-10-27 16:48:51.731665+00:00] <WRN> golioth_logging Warn: 1961
[2022-10-27 16:48:51.730948+00:00] <DBG> golioth_logging Debug info! 1961
[2022-10-27 16:48:51.731932+00:00] <ERR> golioth_logging Err: 1961
[2022-10-27 16:48:51.731163+00:00] <DBG> golioth_logging Log 1: 1961
[2022-10-27 16:48:51.732176+00:00] <INF> golioth_logging Counter hexdump
[2022-10-27 16:48:56.741363+00:00] <WRN> golioth_logging Warn: 1962
[2022-10-27 16:48:56.740810+00:00] <DBG> golioth_logging Log 1: 1962
[2022-10-27 16:48:56.740592+00:00] <DBG> golioth_logging Debug info! 1962
[2022-10-27 16:48:56.741046+00:00] <DBG> golioth_logging Log 2: 1962
[2022-10-27 16:48:56.741875+00:00] <INF> golioth_logging Counter hexdump
[2022-10-27 16:48:56.741612+00:00] <ERR> golioth_logging Err: 1962
```

### Example - call method `multiply` (implemented in `samples/rpc/`)

``` sh
$ golioth call -d nrf52 multiply 3 1.5
{'value': 4.5}
```

Commit message:

scripts: python: golioth: support authorization using 'accesstoken'
This makes CLI tool to work automatically when `goliothctl login` was
already successfully invoked. No need for generating and passing API keys.

Signed-off-by: Marcin Niestroj <m.niestroj@emb.dev>

scripts/python/golioth/README.md, after:

# Golioth client Python library

This is a basic Golioth client library.

## Install

Just install this package from source with following command:

``` sh
pip install .
```

If you plan on editing / development of this package, consider using `-e` (`--editable`) parameter
when installing it.

## CLI

This package installs with CLI script called `golioth`. There are various commands implemented,
which can be listed by using `--help` argument such as:

``` sh
$ golioth --help
Usage: golioth [OPTIONS] COMMAND [ARGS]...

Options:
  -c, --config-path PATH  Path to goliothctl configuration
  --api-key TEXT          Api key
  --help                  Show this message and exit.

Commands:
  call         Call RPC method on device.
  certificate  Certificates related commands.
  device       Device related commands.
  logs         Logging service related commands.
  settings     Settings service related commands.
```

or for each subcommand like `golioth logs --help`.

### Configuration

`golioth` CLI tool is just complementary tool to `goliothctl` (for now). Hence
it uses it's configuration format. `goliothctl` default configuration file is at
`~/.golioth/.goliothctl.yaml`.

#### Default hosted (`api.golioth.io`) backend

`golioth` CLI can reuse credentials stored in `goliothctl`'s `~/.golioth/.goliothctl.yaml`
configuration file. Make sure that `goliothctl` is already logged in with:

``` sh
$ goliothctl login
```

If that is true, then `golioth` CLI will reuse such access token for authorization.

#### Default hosted (`api.golioth.io`) backend - using API key

An alternative approach is to use generated API keys. This can be achieved with `goliothctl apikeys
create`:

``` sh
$ goliothctl apikeys create
id:"SOME_ID"  key:"MY_KEY" type:API_KEY
```

or an existing key can be listed at any point with:

``` sh
$ goliothctl apikeys list
id:"SOME_ID"  key:"MY_KEY"  policy_id:"SOME_POLICY_ID"  roles:"apikey" type:API_KEY
```

Then to use such API key use `--api-key MY_KEY`. As an example, invoke following command to list
devices with Python CLI tool:

``` sh
$ golioth --api-key MY_KEY device list
[
    {
        'id': 'device-id',
        'hardwareIds': ['device-hardware-id'],
        'name': 'device-name',
        'createdAt': '2022-11-15T14:40:48.243Z',
        'updatedAt': '2022-11-15T14:40:48.243Z',
        'tagIds': [],
        'data': None,
        'lastReport': None,
        'status': '-',
        'metadata': {'status': '-', 'lastReport': None, 'lastSeenOnline': None, 'lastSeenOffline': None, 'lastSettingsStatus': None},
        'enabled': True
    }
]
```

#### Self-hosted backend

With self-hosted backend there is no API key authentication required by default. However a separate
configuration file might be useful with following contents:

``` yaml
apiurl: http://localhost:9090
projectid: one
```

assuming that self-hosted Golioth server runs on `localhost` using port `9090`.
`project: one` defines default project to be used. Such configuration is exactly
what is generated by running:

``` sh
goliothctl --apiUrl "http://localhost:9090" config set projectId one
```

when using `goliothctl`. Above configuration file can be used both with
`goliothctl -c myconfig.yaml` or with this package CLI `golioth -c
myconfig.yaml`.

### Example - list last 10 log entries

``` sh
$ golioth logs tail -n 10
[2022-10-27 16:46:06.400946+00:00] <ERR> golioth_logging Err: 1928
[2022-10-27 16:46:11.411925+00:00] <ERR> golioth_logging Err: 1929
[2022-10-27 16:46:16.422354+00:00] <INF> golioth_logging Counter hexdump
[2022-10-27 16:46:21.431396+00:00] <DBG> golioth_logging Log 2: 1931
[2022-10-27 16:46:26.441428+00:00] <DBG> golioth_logging Log 2: 1932
[2022-10-27 16:46:31.450970+00:00] <DBG> golioth_logging Debug info! 1933
[2022-10-27 16:46:36.462141+00:00] <INF> golioth_logging Counter hexdump
[2022-10-27 16:46:41.470900+00:00] <WRN> golioth_logging Warn: 1935
[2022-10-27 16:46:46.481341+00:00] <DBG> golioth_logging Log 2: 1936
[2022-10-27 16:46:51.491666+00:00] <WRN> golioth_logging Warn: 1937
```

### Example - list last 15 log entries with "Zephyr shell" format

``` sh
$ golioth logs tail -n 15 --format zephyr
[02:41:54.420,000] <dbg> golioth_logging: func_1: Log 1: 1939
[02:41:59.430,000] <inf> golioth_logging: Counter hexdump
                                          94 07 00 00
[02:42:04.440,000] <wrn> golioth_logging: Warn: 1941
[02:42:09.450,000] <inf> golioth_logging: Counter hexdump
                                          96 07 00 00
[02:42:14.460,000] <dbg> golioth_logging: main: Debug info! 1943
[02:42:19.470,000] <wrn> golioth_logging: Warn: 1944
[02:42:24.480,000] <err> golioth_logging: Err: 1945
[02:42:29.490,000] <err> golioth_logging: Err: 1946
[02:42:34.500,000] <err> golioth_logging: Err: 1947
[02:42:39.510,000] <dbg> golioth_logging: func_1: Log 1: 1948
[02:42:44.520,000] <dbg> golioth_logging: func_1: Log 1: 1949
[02:42:49.530,000] <dbg> golioth_logging: func_2: Log 2: 1950
[02:42:54.540,000] <err> golioth_logging: Err: 1951
[02:42:59.550,000] <wrn> golioth_logging: Warn: 1952
[02:43:04.560,000] <inf> golioth_logging: Counter hexdump
                                          a1 07 00 00
```

### Example - monitor new log entries in realtime

``` sh
$ golioth logs tail -n 0 -f
[2022-10-27 16:48:51.731504+00:00] <DBG> golioth_logging Log 2: 1961
[2022-10-27 16:48:51.731665+00:00] <WRN> golioth_logging Warn: 1961
[2022-10-27 16:48:51.730948+00:00] <DBG> golioth_logging Debug info! 1961
[2022-10-27 16:48:51.731932+00:00] <ERR> golioth_logging Err: 1961
[2022-10-27 16:48:51.731163+00:00] <DBG> golioth_logging Log 1: 1961
[2022-10-27 16:48:51.732176+00:00] <INF> golioth_logging Counter hexdump
[2022-10-27 16:48:56.741363+00:00] <WRN> golioth_logging Warn: 1962
[2022-10-27 16:48:56.740810+00:00] <DBG> golioth_logging Log 1: 1962
[2022-10-27 16:48:56.740592+00:00] <DBG> golioth_logging Debug info! 1962
[2022-10-27 16:48:56.741046+00:00] <DBG> golioth_logging Log 2: 1962
[2022-10-27 16:48:56.741875+00:00] <INF> golioth_logging Counter hexdump
[2022-10-27 16:48:56.741612+00:00] <ERR> golioth_logging Err: 1962
```

### Example - call method `multiply` (implemented in `samples/rpc/`)

``` sh
$ golioth call -d nrf52 multiply 3 1.5
{'value': 4.5}
```
