samples/logging/README.rst, before:

Golioth Logging sample
######################

Overview
********

This sample application demonstrates how to connect with Golioth and configure
logging backend to send system logs to Golioth.

Requirements
************

- Golioth credentials
- Network connectivity

Building and Running
********************

Configure the following Kconfig options based on your Golioth credentials in
your own overlay config file:

- GOLIOTH_SERVER_DTLS_PSK_ID  - PSK ID of registered device
- GOLIOTH_SERVER_DTLS_PSK     - PSK of registered device

Platform specific configuration
===============================

QEMU
----

This application has been built and tested with QEMU x86 (qemu_x86) and QEMU ARM
Cortex-M3 (qemu_cortex_m3).

On your Linux host computer, open a terminal window, locate the source code
of this sample application (i.e., ``samples/logging``) and type:

.. code-block:: console

   $ west build -b qemu_x86 samples/logging
   $ west build -t run

See `Networking with QEMU`_ on how to setup networking on host and configure
NAT/masquerading to access Internet.

ESP32
-----

Configure the following Kconfig options based on your WiFi AP credentials:

- ESP32_WIFI_SSID     - WiFi SSID
- ESP32_WIFI_PASSWORD - WiFi PSK

On your host computer open a terminal window, locate the source code of this
sample application (i.e., ``samples/logging``) and type:

.. code-block:: console

   $ west build -b esp32 samples/logging
   $ west flash

This is the overlay template for WiFi credentials:

.. code-block:: cfg

   CONFIG_ESP32_WIFI_SSID="my-wifi"
   CONFIG_ESP32_WIFI_PASSWORD="my-psk"

See `ESP32`_ for details on how to use ESP32 board.

Sample overlay file
===================

This is the overlay template for Golioth credentials:

.. code-block:: cfg

   CONFIG_GOLIOTH_SERVER_DTLS_PSK_ID="my-psk-id"
   CONFIG_GOLIOTH_SERVER_DTLS_PSK="my-psk"

Sample output
=============

This is the output from the serial console:

.. code-block:: console

   [00:00:00.100,000] <wrn> net_sock_tls: No entropy device on the system, TLS communication may be insecure!
   [00:00:00.100,000] <inf> net_config: Initializing network
   [00:00:00.100,000] <inf> net_config: IPv4 address: 192.0.2.1
   [00:00:00.100,000] <dbg> golioth_logging.main: Start Logging sample
   [00:00:00.100,000] <inf> golioth_logging: Initializing golioth client
   [00:00:00.100,000] <inf> golioth_logging: Golioth client initialized
   [00:00:00.100,000] <dbg> golioth_logging.main: Debug info! 0
   [00:00:00.100,000] <dbg> golioth_logging.func_1: Log 1: 0
   [00:00:00.100,000] <dbg> golioth_logging.func_2: Log 2: 0
   [00:00:00.100,000] <wrn> golioth_logging: Warn: 0
   [00:00:00.100,000] <err> golioth_logging: Err: 0
   [00:00:00.100,000] <inf> golioth_logging: Counter hexdump
                                             00 00 00 00                                      |....
   [00:00:00.100,000] <inf> golioth_logging: Starting connect
   [00:00:00.110,000] <inf> golioth_logging: Client connected!
   [00:00:05.110,000] <dbg> golioth_logging.main: Debug info! 1
   [00:00:05.110,000] <dbg> golioth_logging.func_1: Log 1: 1
   [00:00:05.110,000] <dbg> golioth_logging.func_2: Log 2: 1
   [00:00:05.110,000] <wrn> golioth_logging: Warn: 1
   [00:00:05.110,000] <err> golioth_logging: Err: 1
   [00:00:05.110,000] <inf> golioth_logging: Counter hexdump
                                             01 00 00 00                                      |....
   [00:00:10.120,000] <dbg> golioth_logging.main: Debug info! 2
   [00:00:10.120,000] <dbg> golioth_logging.func_1: Log 1: 2
   [00:00:10.120,000] <dbg> golioth_logging.func_2: Log 2: 2
   [00:00:10.120,000] <wrn> golioth_logging: Warn: 2
   [00:00:10.120,000] <err> golioth_logging: Err: 2
   [00:00:10.120,000] <inf> golioth_logging: Counter hexdump
                                             02 00 00 00

Access logs with goliothctl
===========================

This is how logs are visible

.. code-block:: console

   $ goliothctl logs
   [2021-04-08 14:20:32 +0000 UTC] level:WARN module:"golioth_logging" message:"Warn: 0" metadata:{fields:{key:"index" value:{number_value:9}} fields:{key:"uptime" value:{number_value:100000}}} device_id:"xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
   [2021-04-08 14:20:32 +0000 UTC] level:INFO module:"golioth_logging" message:"Golioth client initialized" metadata:{fields:{key:"index" value:{number_value:5}} fields:{key:"uptime" value:{number_value:100000}}} device_id:"xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
   [2021-04-08 14:20:32 +0000 UTC] level:INFO module:"golioth_logging" message:"Initializing golioth client" metadata:{fields:{key:"index" value:{number_value:4}} fields:{key:"uptime" value:{number_value:100000}}} device_id:"xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
   [2021-04-08 14:20:32 +0000 UTC] level:INFO module:"net_config" message:"IPv4 address: 192.0.2.1" metadata:{fields:{key:"index" value:{number_value:2}} fields:{key:"uptime" value:{number_value:100000}}} device_id:"xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
   [2021-04-08 14:20:32 +0000 UTC] level:INFO module:"golioth_logging" message:"Client connected!" metadata:{fields:{key:"index" value:{number_value:13}} fields:{key:"uptime" value:{number_value:110000}}} device_id:"xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
   [2021-04-08 14:20:32 +0000 UTC] level:INFO module:"golioth_logging" message:"Starting connect" metadata:{fields:{key:"index" value:{number_value:12}} fields:{key:"uptime" value:{number_value:100000}}} device_id:"xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
   [2021-04-08 14:20:32 +0000 UTC] level:ERROR module:"golioth_logging" message:"Err: 0" metadata:{fields:{key:"index" value:{number_value:10}} fields:{key:"uptime" value:{number_value:100000}}} device_id:"xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
   [2021-04-08 14:20:32 +0000 UTC] level:INFO module:"net_config" message:"Initializing network" metadata:{fields:{key:"index" value:{number_value:1}} fields:{key:"uptime" value:{number_value:100000}}} device_id:"xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
   [2021-04-08 14:20:32 +0000 UTC] level:WARN module:"net_sock_tls" message:"No entropy device on the system, TLS communication may be insecure!" metadata:{fields:{key:"index" value:{number_value:0}} fields:{key:"uptime" value:{number_value:100000}}} device_id:"xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
   [2021-04-08 14:20:32 +0000 UTC] level:INFO module:"golioth_logging" message:"Counter hexdump" metadata:{fields:{key:"hexdump" value:{string_value:"AAAAAA=="}} fields:{key:"index" value:{number_value:11}} fields:{key:"uptime" value:{number_value:100000}}} device_id:"xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
   [2021-04-08 14:20:32 +0000 UTC] level:DEBUG module:"golioth_logging" message:"Debug info! 0" metadata:{fields:{key:"func" value:{string_value:"main"}} fields:{key:"index" value:{number_value:6}} fields:{key:"uptime" value:{number_value:100000}}} device_id:"xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
   [2021-04-08 14:20:32 +0000 UTC] level:DEBUG module:"golioth_logging" message:"Start Logging sample" metadata:{fields:{key:"func" value:{string_value:"main"}} fields:{key:"index" value:{number_value:3}} fields:{key:"uptime" value:{number_value:100000}}} device_id:"xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
   [2021-04-08 14:20:32 +0000 UTC] level:DEBUG module:"golioth_logging" message:"Log 2: 0" metadata:{fields:{key:"func" value:{string_value:"func_2"}} fields:{key:"index" value:{number_value:8}} fields:{key:"uptime" value:{number_value:100000}}} device_id:"xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
   [2021-04-08 14:20:32 +0000 UTC] level:DEBUG module:"golioth_logging" message:"Log 1: 0" metadata:{fields:{key:"func" value:{string_value:"func_1"}} fields:{key:"index" value:{number_value:7}} fields:{key:"uptime" value:{number_value:100000}}} device_id:"xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"

.. _Networking with QEMU: https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/guides/networking/qemu_setup.html#networking-with-qemu
.. _ESP32: https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/boards/xtensa/esp32/doc/index.html

Commit message:

samples: doc: reference interactive configuration before overlays
Interactive configuration using `menuconfig` or `guiconfig` seems easier
for users, so reference that before proposing using configuration
overlays.

samples/logging/README.rst, after:

Golioth Logging sample
######################

Overview
********

This sample application demonstrates how to connect with Golioth and configure
logging backend to send system logs to Golioth.

Requirements
************

- Golioth credentials
- Network connectivity

Building and Running
********************

Configure the following Kconfig options based on your Golioth credentials:

- GOLIOTH_SERVER_DTLS_PSK_ID  - PSK ID of registered device
- GOLIOTH_SERVER_DTLS_PSK     - PSK of registered device

This can be achieved by running following command:

.. code-block:: console

   $ west build -t menuconfig

or

.. code-block:: console

   $ west build -t guiconfig

and changing values of options named ``PSK ID`` and ``PSK``. Note that this
method changes configuration only temporarily in build directory. See
`Interactive Kconfig interfaces`_ for details. To change those options
persistently, please follow `Sample overlay file`_.

Platform specific configuration
===============================

QEMU
----

This application has been built and tested with QEMU x86 (qemu_x86) and QEMU ARM
Cortex-M3 (qemu_cortex_m3).

On your Linux host computer, open a terminal window, locate the source code
of this sample application (i.e., ``samples/logging``) and type:

.. code-block:: console

   $ west build -b qemu_x86 samples/logging
   $ west build -t run

See `Networking with QEMU`_ on how to setup networking on host and configure
NAT/masquerading to access Internet.

ESP32
-----

Configure the following Kconfig options based on your WiFi AP credentials:

- ESP32_WIFI_SSID     - WiFi SSID
- ESP32_WIFI_PASSWORD - WiFi PSK

On your host computer open a terminal window, locate the source code of this
sample application (i.e., ``samples/logging``) and type:

.. code-block:: console

   $ west build -b esp32 samples/logging
   $ west flash

This is the overlay template for WiFi credentials (see `Sample overlay file`_
for details):

.. code-block:: cfg

   CONFIG_ESP32_WIFI_SSID="my-wifi"
   CONFIG_ESP32_WIFI_PASSWORD="my-psk"

See `ESP32`_ for details on how to use ESP32 board.

Sample overlay file
===================

This is the overlay template for Golioth credentials:

.. code-block:: cfg

   CONFIG_GOLIOTH_SERVER_DTLS_PSK_ID="my-psk-id"
   CONFIG_GOLIOTH_SERVER_DTLS_PSK="my-psk"

Put this content into ``samples/logging/overlay-cred.conf`` file and run build
with ``-DOVERLAY_CONFIG=overlay-cred.conf`` option, e.g.:

.. code-block:: console

   $ west build -b <platform> -- -DOVERLAY_CONFIG=overlay-cred.conf

Sample output
=============

This is the output from the serial console:

.. code-block:: console

   [00:00:00.100,000] <wrn> net_sock_tls: No entropy device on the system, TLS communication may be insecure!
   [00:00:00.100,000] <inf> net_config: Initializing network
   [00:00:00.100,000] <inf> net_config: IPv4 address: 192.0.2.1
   [00:00:00.100,000] <dbg> golioth_logging.main: Start Logging sample
   [00:00:00.100,000] <inf> golioth_logging: Initializing golioth client
   [00:00:00.100,000] <inf> golioth_logging: Golioth client initialized
   [00:00:00.100,000] <dbg> golioth_logging.main: Debug info! 0
   [00:00:00.100,000] <dbg> golioth_logging.func_1: Log 1: 0
   [00:00:00.100,000] <dbg> golioth_logging.func_2: Log 2: 0
   [00:00:00.100,000] <wrn> golioth_logging: Warn: 0
   [00:00:00.100,000] <err> golioth_logging: Err: 0
   [00:00:00.100,000] <inf> golioth_logging: Counter hexdump
                                             00 00 00 00                                      |....
   [00:00:00.100,000] <inf> golioth_logging: Starting connect
   [00:00:00.110,000] <inf> golioth_logging: Client connected!
   [00:00:05.110,000] <dbg> golioth_logging.main: Debug info! 1
   [00:00:05.110,000] <dbg> golioth_logging.func_1: Log 1: 1
   [00:00:05.110,000] <dbg> golioth_logging.func_2: Log 2: 1
   [00:00:05.110,000] <wrn> golioth_logging: Warn: 1
   [00:00:05.110,000] <err> golioth_logging: Err: 1
   [00:00:05.110,000] <inf> golioth_logging: Counter hexdump
                                             01 00 00 00                                      |....
   [00:00:10.120,000] <dbg> golioth_logging.main: Debug info! 2
   [00:00:10.120,000] <dbg> golioth_logging.func_1: Log 1: 2
   [00:00:10.120,000] <dbg> golioth_logging.func_2: Log 2: 2
   [00:00:10.120,000] <wrn> golioth_logging: Warn: 2
   [00:00:10.120,000] <err> golioth_logging: Err: 2
   [00:00:10.120,000] <inf> golioth_logging: Counter hexdump
                                             02 00 00 00

Access logs with goliothctl
===========================

This is how logs are visible

.. code-block:: console

   $ goliothctl logs
   [2021-04-08 14:20:32 +0000 UTC] level:WARN module:"golioth_logging" message:"Warn: 0" metadata:{fields:{key:"index" value:{number_value:9}} fields:{key:"uptime" value:{number_value:100000}}} device_id:"xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
   [2021-04-08 14:20:32 +0000 UTC] level:INFO module:"golioth_logging" message:"Golioth client initialized" metadata:{fields:{key:"index" value:{number_value:5}} fields:{key:"uptime" value:{number_value:100000}}} device_id:"xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
   [2021-04-08 14:20:32 +0000 UTC] level:INFO module:"golioth_logging" message:"Initializing golioth client" metadata:{fields:{key:"index" value:{number_value:4}} fields:{key:"uptime" value:{number_value:100000}}} device_id:"xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
   [2021-04-08 14:20:32 +0000 UTC] level:INFO module:"net_config" message:"IPv4 address: 192.0.2.1" metadata:{fields:{key:"index" value:{number_value:2}} fields:{key:"uptime" value:{number_value:100000}}} device_id:"xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
   [2021-04-08 14:20:32 +0000 UTC] level:INFO module:"golioth_logging" message:"Client connected!" metadata:{fields:{key:"index" value:{number_value:13}} fields:{key:"uptime" value:{number_value:110000}}} device_id:"xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
   [2021-04-08 14:20:32 +0000 UTC] level:INFO module:"golioth_logging" message:"Starting connect" metadata:{fields:{key:"index" value:{number_value:12}} fields:{key:"uptime" value:{number_value:100000}}} device_id:"xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
   [2021-04-08 14:20:32 +0000 UTC] level:ERROR module:"golioth_logging" message:"Err: 0" metadata:{fields:{key:"index" value:{number_value:10}} fields:{key:"uptime" value:{number_value:100000}}} device_id:"xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
   [2021-04-08 14:20:32 +0000 UTC] level:INFO module:"net_config" message:"Initializing network" metadata:{fields:{key:"index" value:{number_value:1}} fields:{key:"uptime" value:{number_value:100000}}} device_id:"xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
   [2021-04-08 14:20:32 +0000 UTC] level:WARN module:"net_sock_tls" message:"No entropy device on the system, TLS communication may be insecure!" metadata:{fields:{key:"index" value:{number_value:0}} fields:{key:"uptime" value:{number_value:100000}}} device_id:"xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
   [2021-04-08 14:20:32 +0000 UTC] level:INFO module:"golioth_logging" message:"Counter hexdump" metadata:{fields:{key:"hexdump" value:{string_value:"AAAAAA=="}} fields:{key:"index" value:{number_value:11}} fields:{key:"uptime" value:{number_value:100000}}} device_id:"xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
   [2021-04-08 14:20:32 +0000 UTC] level:DEBUG module:"golioth_logging" message:"Debug info! 0" metadata:{fields:{key:"func" value:{string_value:"main"}} fields:{key:"index" value:{number_value:6}} fields:{key:"uptime" value:{number_value:100000}}} device_id:"xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
   [2021-04-08 14:20:32 +0000 UTC] level:DEBUG module:"golioth_logging" message:"Start Logging sample" metadata:{fields:{key:"func" value:{string_value:"main"}} fields:{key:"index" value:{number_value:3}} fields:{key:"uptime" value:{number_value:100000}}} device_id:"xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
   [2021-04-08 14:20:32 +0000 UTC] level:DEBUG module:"golioth_logging" message:"Log 2: 0" metadata:{fields:{key:"func" value:{string_value:"func_2"}} fields:{key:"index" value:{number_value:8}} fields:{key:"uptime" value:{number_value:100000}}} device_id:"xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
   [2021-04-08 14:20:32 +0000 UTC] level:DEBUG module:"golioth_logging" message:"Log 1: 0" metadata:{fields:{key:"func" value:{string_value:"func_1"}} fields:{key:"index" value:{number_value:7}} fields:{key:"uptime" value:{number_value:100000}}} device_id:"xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"

.. _Networking with QEMU: https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/guides/networking/qemu_setup.html#networking-with-qemu
.. _ESP32: https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/boards/xtensa/esp32/doc/index.html
.. _Interactive Kconfig interfaces: https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/guides/kconfig/menuconfig.html
