samples/hello/README.rst, before:

Golioth Hello sample
####################

Overview
********

This sample application demonstrates how to connect with Golioth and publish
simple Hello messages.

Requirements
************

- Golioth credentials
- Network connectivity

Building and Running
********************

Configure the following Kconfig options based on your Golioth credentials in
your own overlay config file:

- GOLIOTH_SERVER_DTLS_PSK_ID  - PSK ID of registered device
- GOLIOTH_SERVER_DTLS_PSK     - PSK of registered device

Platform specific configuration
===============================

QEMU
----

This application has been built and tested with QEMU x86 (qemu_x86) and QEMU ARM
Cortex-M3 (qemu_cortex_m3).

On your Linux host computer, open a terminal window, locate the source code
of this sample application (i.e., ``samples/hello``) and type:

.. code-block:: console

   $ west build -b qemu_x86 samples/hello
   $ west build -t run

See `Networking with QEMU`_ on how to setup networking on host and configure
NAT/masquerading to access Internet.

ESP32
-----

Configure the following Kconfig options based on your WiFi AP credentials:

- ESP32_WIFI_SSID     - WiFi SSID
- ESP32_WIFI_PASSWORD - WiFi PSK

On your host computer open a terminal window, locate the source code of this
sample application (i.e., ``samples/hello``) and type:

.. code-block:: console

   $ west build -b esp32 samples/hello
   $ west flash

This is the overlay template for WiFi credentials:

.. code-block:: cfg

   CONFIG_ESP32_WIFI_SSID="my-wifi"
   CONFIG_ESP32_WIFI_PASSWORD="my-psk"

See `ESP32`_ for details on how to use ESP32 board.

Sample overlay file
===================

This is the overlay template for Golioth credentials:

.. code-block:: cfg

   CONFIG_GOLIOTH_SERVER_DTLS_PSK_ID="my-psk-id"
   CONFIG_GOLIOTH_SERVER_DTLS_PSK="my-psk"

Sample output
=============

This is the output from the serial console:

.. code-block:: console

   [00:00:00.000,000] <inf> golioth_hello: Initializing golioth client
   [00:00:00.000,000] <inf> golioth_hello: Golioth client initialized
   [00:00:00.000,000] <inf> golioth_hello: Sending hello! 0
   [00:00:00.000,000] <wrn> golioth_hello: Failed to send hello!
   [00:00:00.000,000] <inf> golioth_hello: Starting connect
   [00:00:00.000,000] <inf> golioth_hello: Client connected!
   [00:00:05.010,000] <inf> golioth_hello: Sending hello! 1
   [00:00:05.020,000] <dbg> golioth_hello: Payload
                                           48 65 6c 6c 6f 20 6d 61  72 6b                   |Hello ma rk
   [00:00:10.030,000] <inf> golioth_hello: Sending hello! 2
   [00:00:10.030,000] <dbg> golioth_hello: Payload
                                           48 65 6c 6c 6f 20 6d 61  72 6b                   |Hello ma rk

Responses to Hello messages are printed above as a hexdump of "Hello mark". This
means that communication with Golioth is working.

.. _Networking with QEMU: https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/guides/networking/qemu_setup.html#networking-with-qemu
.. _ESP32: https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/boards/xtensa/esp32/doc/index.html

Commit message:

samples: doc: reference interactive configuration before overlays
Interactive configuration using `menuconfig` or `guiconfig` seems easier
for users, so reference that before proposing using configuration
overlays.

samples/hello/README.rst, after:

Golioth Hello sample
####################

Overview
********

This sample application demonstrates how to connect with Golioth and publish
simple Hello messages.

Requirements
************

- Golioth credentials
- Network connectivity

Building and Running
********************

Configure the following Kconfig options based on your Golioth credentials:

- GOLIOTH_SERVER_DTLS_PSK_ID  - PSK ID of registered device
- GOLIOTH_SERVER_DTLS_PSK     - PSK of registered device

This can be achieved by running following command:

.. code-block:: console

   $ west build -t menuconfig

or

.. code-block:: console

   $ west build -t guiconfig

and changing values of options named ``PSK ID`` and ``PSK``. Note that this
method changes configuration only temporarily in build directory. See
`Interactive Kconfig interfaces`_ for details. To change those options
persistently, please follow `Sample overlay file`_.

Platform specific configuration
===============================

QEMU
----

This application has been built and tested with QEMU x86 (qemu_x86) and QEMU ARM
Cortex-M3 (qemu_cortex_m3).

On your Linux host computer, open a terminal window, locate the source code
of this sample application (i.e., ``samples/hello``) and type:

.. code-block:: console

   $ west build -b qemu_x86 samples/hello
   $ west build -t run

See `Networking with QEMU`_ on how to setup networking on host and configure
NAT/masquerading to access Internet.

ESP32
-----

Configure the following Kconfig options based on your WiFi AP credentials:

- ESP32_WIFI_SSID     - WiFi SSID
- ESP32_WIFI_PASSWORD - WiFi PSK

On your host computer open a terminal window, locate the source code of this
sample application (i.e., ``samples/hello``) and type:

.. code-block:: console

   $ west build -b esp32 samples/hello
   $ west flash

This is the overlay template for WiFi credentials (see `Sample overlay file`_
for details):

.. code-block:: cfg

   CONFIG_ESP32_WIFI_SSID="my-wifi"
   CONFIG_ESP32_WIFI_PASSWORD="my-psk"

See `ESP32`_ for details on how to use ESP32 board.

Sample overlay file
===================

This is the overlay template for Golioth credentials:

.. code-block:: cfg

   CONFIG_GOLIOTH_SERVER_DTLS_PSK_ID="my-psk-id"
   CONFIG_GOLIOTH_SERVER_DTLS_PSK="my-psk"

Put this content into ``samples/hello/overlay-cred.conf`` file and run build
with ``-DOVERLAY_CONFIG=overlay-cred.conf`` option, e.g.:

.. code-block:: console

   $ west build -b <platform> -- -DOVERLAY_CONFIG=overlay-cred.conf

Sample output
=============

This is the output from the serial console:

.. code-block:: console

   [00:00:00.000,000] <inf> golioth_hello: Initializing golioth client
   [00:00:00.000,000] <inf> golioth_hello: Golioth client initialized
   [00:00:00.000,000] <inf> golioth_hello: Sending hello! 0
   [00:00:00.000,000] <wrn> golioth_hello: Failed to send hello!
   [00:00:00.000,000] <inf> golioth_hello: Starting connect
   [00:00:00.000,000] <inf> golioth_hello: Client connected!
   [00:00:05.010,000] <inf> golioth_hello: Sending hello! 1
   [00:00:05.020,000] <dbg> golioth_hello: Payload
                                           48 65 6c 6c 6f 20 6d 61  72 6b                   |Hello ma rk
   [00:00:10.030,000] <inf> golioth_hello: Sending hello! 2
   [00:00:10.030,000] <dbg> golioth_hello: Payload
                                           48 65 6c 6c 6f 20 6d 61  72 6b                   |Hello ma rk

Responses to Hello messages are printed above as a hexdump of "Hello mark". This
means that communication with Golioth is working.

.. _Networking with QEMU: https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/guides/networking/qemu_setup.html#networking-with-qemu
.. _ESP32: https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/boards/xtensa/esp32/doc/index.html
.. _Interactive Kconfig interfaces: https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/guides/kconfig/menuconfig.html
